VERSION ONE

Alex Neve is a visiting and adjunct professor in international human rights law at the University of Ottawa and Dalhousie University, and a Senior Fellow with the University of Ottawa’s Graduate School of Public and International Affairs. He presently serves as a Member of the UN Human Rights Council’s Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on Venezuela. He was Secretary General of Amnesty International Canada’s English Branch from 2000 – 2020. He is a lawyer, with a Master’s Degree in International Human Rights Law from the University of Essex. Alex was the 2025 CBC Massey Lecturer, addressing the theme of Universal: Renewing Human Rights in a Fractured World. Alex Neve is an Officer of the Order of Canada.  

VERSION TWO

Alex Neve is a visiting and adjunct professor in international human rights law at the University of Ottawa and Dalhousie University, and a Senior Fellow with the University of Ottawa’s Graduate School of Public and International Affairs. He presently serves as a Member of the UN Human Rights Council’s Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on Venezuela. He was Secretary General of Amnesty International Canada from 2000 - 2020. He took part in over forty human rights research and advocacy delegations throughout Africa, Asia, Latin America, Guantánamo Bay and, closer to home, First Nations communities in Canada.  He has an LLB from Dalhousie University and a Master’s Degree in International Human Rights Law from the University of Essex.  He has served as a member of the Immigration and Refugee Board, taught at Osgoode Hall Law School, been affiliated with York University's Centre for Refugee Studies, and worked as a refugee lawyer in private practice and in a community legal aid clinic.  Alex has been named an Officer of the Order of Canada and served as a Trudeau Foundation Mentor. He is a recipient of a Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Medal. He has received three honorary Doctorate of Laws degrees.  Alex was the 2025 CBC Massey Lecturer, addressing the theme of Universal: Renewing Human Rights in a Fractured World.

VERSION THREE

Alex Neve believes in a world in which the human rights of all people are protected. He is presently a visiting and adjunct professor in international human rights law with the Faculties of Law and Social Sciences at the University of Ottawa and Dalhousie University, and a Senior Fellow with the University of Ottawa’s Graduate School of Public and International Affairs. He presently serves as a Member of the UN Human Rights Council’s Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on Venezuela. He was Secretary General of Amnesty International Canada’s English Branch from 2000 - 2020. In that role he led and took part in over forty human rights research and advocacy delegations throughout Africa, Asia, Latin America, Guantánamo Bay and, closer to home, First Nations communities in Canada.  Alex is a lawyer, with an LLB from Dalhousie University and a Master’s Degree in International Human Rights Law from the University of Essex.  He has served as a member of the Immigration and Refugee Board, taught at Osgoode Hall Law School, been affiliated with York University's Centre for Refugee Studies, and worked as a refugee lawyer in private practice and in a community legal aid clinic.  

Alex is the Chair of Canadian Leadership for Nuclear Disarmament and the Canadian Coalition on Human Rights in China, serves on the Board of Directors of the Centre for Law and Democracy, is a Fellow with the Atlantic Human Rights Centre and is a Principal Researcher with the University of Ottawa’s Centre for International Policy Studies. Alex has been named an Officer of the Order of Canada and served as a Trudeau Foundation Mentor. He is a recipient of a Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Medal. He has received honorary Doctorate of Laws degrees from St. Thomas University, the University of Waterloo and the University of New Brunswick. Alex was the 2025 CBC Massey Lecturer, addressing the theme of Universal: Renewing Human Rights in a Fractured.
